How can you make
important points of instruction
more vivid as you teach?
Use a visual aid.
That’s what Jehovah did
when speaking with Abraham
as recorded at Genesis 15:5.
Jehovah brought Abraham outside and said:
“Look up, please,
to the heavens and count the stars.”
Imagine Abraham looking up
to the heavens on a clear night
and seeing thousands of stars
twinkling like diamonds.
Jehovah then made
the point of instruction clear when he said:
“So your offspring will become.”
Abraham understood,
and he remembered
Jehovah’s promise for the rest of his life.
Well, how might we use
visual aids in our teaching?
We can choose pictures,
diagrams, maps, time lines,
or other items to highlight
not minor details
but important concepts.
And whether we’re teaching
in the field ministry or in the congregation,
we need to make sure
that our listeners can “see” the visual aid.
As we watch the following example,
consider whether this use of a visual aid
is appropriate or inappropriate.
Rumors are like this balloon:
full of hot air,
floating through the room.
What should we do with rumors?
Deflate them
before they travel any further.
Was that an appropriate use of a visual aid?
Oh, it’ll be remembered
but for all the wrong reasons.
Our objective in using visual aids
is not to shock or entertain the audience.
Let’s give the speaker
another chance to make
appropriate use of a visual aid.
Why should we spend time
getting to know our brothers and sisters?
Well, we could compare them
to this beautiful rock
called a geode.
If we look past the surface imperfections
and take the time to get to know
our brothers and sisters,
we may come to know
their beautiful inner qualities,
“the secret person of the heart.”
Simple and clear.
Our publications also use visual aids.
How can we make
good use of them in the ministry?
Let’s watch a brother
conducting a Bible study.
Does he make good use of the artwork?
What will life be like
in the coming Paradise?
In order to visualize what we
just considered in paragraphs 17-23,
notice the artwork on page 37.
Nice, right?
Let’s move on to paragraph 24.
The publisher briefly
called attention to the illustration.
But he could have made better use of it.
While we don’t need to focus
on minor details in a picture,
we should try to highlight
key aspects of the artwork.
Let’s watch him try again.
What will life be like
in the coming Paradise?
In order to visualize what we’ll
consider in paragraphs 17-23,
notice the artwork on page 37.
What aspects of this scene
are different from life in today’s world?
Everybody is happy.
That’s right.
The whole earth will be a paradise.
What else?
Does anyone in this scene
have glasses or a cane?
No.
Sickness and death will be gone too.
What about war and violence?
What do you see in the picture?
Everybody is getting along,
even people of different races.
Exactly!
There will even be peace
between humans and the animals.
But you might be thinking,
‘That’s just too good to be true.’
Well, let’s now consider
the verses from the Bible
that provide the basis for this picture.
Would you please read paragraph 17?
In this case,
the publisher used the artwork
to preview information to follow.
We can also use the artwork
to review key points.
The important thing is for our listeners
to remember the point of the visual aid.
Brothers who conduct the Watchtower Study
and the Congregation Bible Study
should make good use of the visual aids
that appear in the lesson.
When we select visual aids
that enhance our teaching
rather than detract from it,
we’ll honor Jehovah
and make important points of instruction
memorable to our audience.